---
layout: post
title:  "Deleting LinkedIn"
date:   2021-01-24 5:55:55 -0500
categories: janitoria security
tags: security opsec "social media"
---
I deleted my LinkedIn account the other day.  It was my last remaining social media account.  I deleted the others a while back, because I felt they added nothing to my life and leaked personal data to people who didn't deserve to have it.  LinkedIn, I viewed as a necessary evil.  "You need a LinkedIn account," people told me, "you won't get a job without one."  

### Forever home
Well, I have a job, and I rather like it.  I don't really want another one.  Some people might think that's naive, but I think there are rare places that still exist in this world where you can work and be happy for as long as you'd like.  I think my current employer is like that.  I'm so dialed into the psychic wavelength of the place that I got a pleasant surprise late last year: when our new headquarters building was announced, it was referred to in official company channels as our "Forever Home".  I'd previously used the same term to describe my new job.  After a dreary year of contract work, I wanted to settle down somewhere.  I didn't want to worry about what I'd be doing next year or where I'd be doing it.  My previous employer, who I hold no ill will towards (the contract was dreary, they were delightful) had an official or at least semi-official blog post about how "nothing is permanent, not even a 'permanent job'".  I think it might have been a marketing effort to comfort people who were uncomfortable with the idea of contract work, but beyond realpolitik reasons, I think no one would do contract work if they didn't believe that on some level.  When I left that job for my current one, that blog post was rattling around my head along with the ideal of the "forever home".  I'd  mostly heard the term applied to dogs being adopted from shelters, applying it to myself was ironic on some levels, but there was a kernel of, if not truth, at least hope in it.  Now, a full year later, I see that I wasn't just being hopeful, that I'm at a place that I can really belong.  So, I deleted my LinkedIn account.

### Leaking details
The direct impetus for deleting LinkedIn was given to me 6 months ago.  I was listening to DarkNet Diaries Episode 10, [Misadventures of a Nation-State Actor](https://darknetdiaries.com/episode/10/).  The person being interviewed worked for the NSA, and detailed how they would hit a company.  They'd conduct OSINT (Open Source INTelligence) operations on IT staff at the target, using LinkedIn among other tools.  They'd see that Bob Johnson was a longtime network admin who listed Server 2008 as one of his many skills, and they could probably assume there was an Server 2008 box somewhere on the network, probably running network functions and they can go to their toolbox of exploits and zero-days and crack it easily (it is the NSA after all).  It's a small thing, but it's also something that would do Bob Johnson no good to share if he liked his job.  He doesn't need to worry about letting other people know about his vintage Windows skills if the boxes he wants to work on are the ones at his current place.  Maybe Bob hates his current employer, I don't know this probably fictional example person, but if he doesn't then he hurt them for no benefit.  Now, I've got this blog, and it's not terribly difficult to find out who I work for or what I do, but LinkedIn leaked that info in an easy to find place and gave me nothing in return.

### Nothing important has ever happened from LinkedIn
My initial read on LinkedIn is a pretty accurate one, I think: it's where mediocre people's careers go to die.  I don't mean that as an insult to most people on LinkedIn.  If your job title is "Influencer" and you have 700,000 connections, it is an insult and you should take it personally, but for most normal people who have LinkedIn because some coworker invited them to it or they had to make it for a college class and they just maintain it because of inertia, you're fine.  Your career isn't going there to die, because it has nothing to do with your career.

I've been on LinkedIn since my last semester of college, about three years ago now.  In that time I have tried to use LinkedIn in the way it's intended for non-sociopaths: mild business-related social networking.  I'd catch up with classmates, look out for neat job postings, read linked articles from talking heads.  In that time, I gained literally, **literally**, nothing from it.  No jobs, those came from applying on the business's site.  No real useful skills, those came from reading books and watching the increasingly ubiquitous YouTube videos.  No real connections, because people either don't care about LinkedIn or they have nothing of value to add for anyone besides themselves.  I *might* have helped connect one person to one possible job.  This might sound selfish, but that wasn't worth the hours of wasted time.  If it was important, person A could have emailed me and I could have sent them person B's contact info.

### It's a social network
All of this is to say: LinkedIn is a social network.  It's a cancer on the web and a cancer on society.  Tech bros realized they can hack something in our lizard-brains and make us spends days of seconds scrolling, reading articles, congratulating some dude we knew in high school about his 1 year anniversary at a meat packing plant as a cow-smasher.  Meanwhile, they feed us overt and covert advertisements, steal our personal information, and rot our brains so they can ~~desperately try to pay back their VCs~~ desperately try to filch more money out of their VCs.  There may be a small amount of value you get from it, but you're providing more value to unscrupulous people.  It's like they say, "if you can't tell what the product is, you're the product".