---
layout: post
title:  "PII of your very own"
date:   2021- 5:55:55 -0500
categories: tech security
tags: security pii wiping
---
As I write this, I'm waiting on a thumb drive to finish its seventh pass of the DOD wipe, so I can smash it open with a mallet and then physically destroy every flash chip individually.  The reason for my thoroughness is that this thumb drive has a picture of my Social Security card on it, along with a picture of my driver's license.  It's the dictionary definition of PII, and it's also **my** PII.  I really would prefer not to have my identity stolen, so I'm taking extraordinary measures to protect this information.  My question, to myself and to other janitors, is "why is it extraordinary?  Why don't we do this for everything?"  Unless you verify every device individually, there's no way to be certain they don't contain someone elses, or even your, PII.  I don't check every thumb drive, SD card, or hard drive that passes through my closet, and I certainly don't personally destroy them on a component level, unless I need fridge magnets, and even then the destruction of the hard drive is incidental.

We're up to four of seven wipes now.  The biggest reason I can think of is time.  I only have so many hours in a week I can work, and personally destroying a dozen hard drives or a hundred thumb drives would take up a good amount of them.  We also have a trusted recycling partner that is certified for secure destruction of e-waste containing data.  They are theoretically doing the same thing I'd be doing, but for free.  Theoretically is a key word there.  They likely degauss a big box of drives and then throw them in a shredder.  They might just shred them.  This is getting conspiratorial, and I am **not** making an accusation, but they could even just be selling the drives with data on them or throwing them into a landfill.  There's a basic level of trust from recycling being their job and an additional level of trust from the certification, but I just don't know, which is why I retrieved Smolnir the IT Mallet from its resting place and got some tin snips from the 3D printing lab.  I am certain of them.

How reasonable is it for me to destroy this drive, which I'm certain has PII on it?  How reasonable is it for me to destroy other drives which I'm not certain have PII?  Does physical destruction even matter if you do a destructive overwrite of the drive?  In order: very, still fairly, and absolutely.  My company has a policy which demands a three or greater pass DOD wipe for any IT asset being reused or recycled.  If we recycle it, we do so with our trusted recycling partner with all those certifications.  My question is, "if I don't trust it for my data, why do I trust it for anyone elses?"