---
layout: post
title:  "Get strapped: gun purchasing guide"
date:   2021-01-25 5:55:55 -0500
categories: offtopic guns
tags: guns advice "new gun owner"
---
A few times in my life, people have asked me for advice on a gun to buy.  Unsurprisingly, that happened a quite few times in 2020.  I figured this might be a good starting point for my general advice on purchasing firearms for new owners.  I plan to write a series of articles giving advice to new gun owners.  To start with: a short list of types of firearms for a new gun owner to buy for the purpose of "home defense", which can be more specifically defined as winning a gunfight in your own home with as little damage as possible to you, your family, and your home.  This won't cover concealed carry, or target shooting, or hunting.  These are guns that stay at home and are effective.  I'll mark out weapons that are effective in other situations, but the first and foremost goal is home defence.

### Terminology
First, a little bit of terminology:
* Rifles - a rifle is a firearm that shoots a single projectile (a bullet) and is fired from the shoulder
* Shotguns - a shotgun is a firearm that shoots multiple small projectiles (shot) and is fired from the shoulder
* Pistol - a pistol is a firearm that shoots a single projectile and is held in one or two hands
* Semi-automatic and manual - commonly available firearms can be broken down into semi-automatic or manually repeating.  Semi-automatic means that the gun will make itself ready to fire automatically after each shot.  You can pull the trigger, fire, pull the trigger, fire, and repeat until the magazine is empty.  Manually repeating firearms will need you to perform an action, pumping a slide for instance, before you can fire them again.
* Double action and single action - this mostly applies to pistols.  A single action pistol requires the hammer to be pulled or "cocked" back before firing.  A double action pistol will pull the hammer back when you pull the trigger (the trigger does two actions).  In a semi-automatic pistol, the hammer is cocked back automatically each time you fire, so it only affects the first trigger pull.  In a revolver, the hammer is not automatically cocked.
* Manual safety - a switch or button that you can activate to mechanically disable the firearm, usually by locking the trigger so it can't be pulled.  A mechanical safety is **not** a replacement for using your gun in a safe manner.  Even if your safety is on, you should keep your gun pointed in a safe direction, with your finger off the trigger, until you are ready to fire at a target you have identified and mean to shoot at, and have made sure there is nothing in front of or behind that target you do not want to shoot.
* Magazine - the magazine is the part of the firearm that holds your ammunition.  You can have removable or fixed magazines.  A removable magazine can be loaded and stored outside of the firearm, and you can have multiple on hand for a quick reload.  A fixed magazine is physically attached to the firearm and must be reloaded manually.
* Caliber - the size of bullet a firearm is made for is referred to as the caliber.  A caliber is usually measured in hundredths or thousandths of an inch (such as .357 inches) or in millimeters (9 millimeters).  Sometimes the same type of ammunition can be measured both ways and be interchangeable (.223 caliber and 5.56mm), some times it cannot (9mm and .357 caliber).  Sometimes, a gun chambered in one caliber can fire another.  This is usually one way only, so a .357 can fire .38, but a .38 cannot fire .357.  Sometimes there will be additional numbers or a name after the first number.  There are lots of caveats and gotchas, so just be sure that you have the exact ammunition that goes with your gun, because "9mm Largo" and "9mm Parabellum" are different sizes and aren't interchangeable.
* Gauge - shotgun shells are measured differently that rifle and pistol ammunition.  I won't go into how gauge is determined, as it's a weird artifact from several hundred years ago.  What you need to know is that the smaller the number, the wider and more powerful the shell.  12 gauge is larger than 20 gauge.  Shotgun shells are also measured by their length, which is usually marked in inches in the US.  12 gauge shells come in lengths from 2 1/2 inches to 3 1/2 inches.  A shotgun can fire shells shorter than their listed length, but not longer.
* Shot - the actual pellets inside a shotgun shell are measured based on their individual size.  The smaller the number, the larger the pellets and the fewer in the shell.  Number 9 shot is smaller than number four shot is smaller than 000 (triple-aught) shot.  There is also nomenclature around the animal traditionally hunted with the size of shot.  Birdshot is smaller than buckshot.


### Tactical rifles
The first and ultimately most effective type of firearm for home defense is broadly termed a "tactical rifle", which is to say semi-automatic magazine fed rifle in an intermediate caliber.  Intermediate caliber is a term borrowed from the military and has a bit of history, to summarize it briefly, it is less than the older style "full power" ammunition used before the 1960's.  Don't worry, an intermediate caliber still packs plenty of punch, but it has less recoil and holds more rounds in a magazine.  

In the United States, the most popular tactical rifle is the AR-15 (the civilian version of the military's M16 rifle) and the most popular caliber is 5.56x45 NATO, also called .223 Remington.  There are also other rifles in this category, and some of those rifles are chambered in other calibers.  I would recommend that you stick to an AR-15 in 5.56mm, as they will be the least expensive rifles with the most easily available ammunition.  There are many different manufacturers of AR-15, and most are good so I won't list all of them.  I'd recommend setting a budget (rifle only) of $600 on the low end and $1000 on the high end.  You can buy an AR-15 for less and get something that won't be as reliable, or for more and not get a good return on investment.  Barrel lengths normally vary between 16 inches and 20 inches.  For home defense, shorter is better.  When you get your rifle, also buy some extra magazines.  I would recommend between three and five, but you really can't have too many.  Your rifle should come with at least one, but may come with more.  Double check before you grab too many extras.  For AR-15's, the Magpul P-Mag is a great choice.  They aren't super expensive and are very reliable and lightweight.

In some parts of the US, as well as in many other countries, rifles like the AR-15 can be restricted based on differing criteria.  I don't live in those places and I'm not familiar with every law and regulation, so I won't give too much advice beyond check your local laws on "assault weapons" before getting your heart set on a tactical rifle.

### Repeating shotguns
The next most effective type of home defense firearm is a repeating shotgun, either semi-automatic or pump action.  Semi-automatic shotguns are much more expensive, but can be more reliable in a stressful situation than a pump action.  Most shotguns have fixed tubular magazines beneath the barrel, holding between 4 and 8 shotgun shells.  There are some shotguns that feed from a removable box magazine, but I don't recommend these for first time gun buyers, as they can frequently have reliability issues.  I would recommend a 12 gauge with a 3 or 3 1/2 inch chamber.  A 20 gauge will have less recoil, but is slightly harder to find ammunition and has less shot in each shell.

Pump-action shotguns are the less expensive option, so let's start there.  Pump-action shotguns will be the least expensive of all the options I recommend.  A good pump action shotgun would be a Mossberg Maverick 88.  There are many other great options and brands, but I'd specifically recommend the Maverick because it's inexpensive without being low quality.  A Maverick 88 Security has an extended magazine and lightweight plastic furniture and retails for around just $200.  If you wanted to spend a bit more you could get a Mossberg Model 500 or 590 (around $400), which are like nicer versions of the Maverick, or you could get a Benelli Nova (around $400), which is a high-quality Italian brand that's mostly known for their semi-automatic shotguns.

Semi-automatic shotguns can are far more expensive than pump-actions, but are more reliable under stress.  A pump-action shotgun requires **you** to pump the slide handle between shots with a lot of force.  If you're in a stressful situation, like a home invasion, you can make a mistake that can jam up your gun.  An example of a semi-automatic shotgun would be a Mossberg 930 (around $900) or a Benelli M2 (around $1200).  I warned you they were more expensive!  There are increasingly expensive semi-automatic shotguns, but you'll see diminishing returns quickly.  I'd primarily recommend a semi-automatic shotgun if you have the money for an AR-15, but can't buy one because they are restricted where you live.

### Striker-fired pistols
I would recommend either a rifle or shotgun before I recommend a pistol.  Pistols are more difficult to aim and fire, because you don't have your shoulder as a third point of contact to steady the weapon.  With that said, pistols are obviously smaller than rifles and can be better if you have limited storage options available to you.  The first kind of pistol I'll be discussing is a "striker-fired" pistol, the most common and well known example being the Glock series of pistols.

There are many different brands and models of striker-fired pistols, but they share common traits.  They are double action only, meaning that they have a heavier trigger pull than a hammer fired pistol.  This is good and bad.  A heavy trigger pull is safer to store and carry since you need to really pull on it to fire, but makes it less accurate since your hand can move while you pull the trigger.  Another common (but not universal) feature of striker-fired pistols is that they lack a manual safety.  Glocks are very famous for having no manual safety, leading to many accidents where people have accidentally shot themselves or others accidentally.  If that makes you nervous, get a pistol with a manual safety, but know that many police departments and militaries are confident in their training and use Glocks safely every day.

For home defense, I would recommend a "full sized" or "duty" pistol.  An example of a full sized pistol would be a Glock 17, and if you ask for something "full sized" or "Glock 17 sized", the clerk at the gun shop should know what you mean.  A full sized pistol will have less recoil than a smaller pistol, because there's more mass to absorb the shock from firing.  They will also have larger magazines, usually between 15 and 20 rounds.  There are also "compact" pistols, the Glock example would be a Glock 19.  They will be a bit smaller, have smaller magazines, and have slightly more recoil, but can be a little bit less expensive and are a better option if you'd also like to carry your pistol outside your house (**please check  your local concealed carry laws before doing this, it's a really easy way to go to jail if you don't have the proper permit**).  I would avoid "subcompact" pistols, as they'll have more recoil than their tiny size can lead you to believe.  

Pistols are usually available in three calibers: 9mm, which is variously called 9x19mm, 9mm NATO, 9mm Parabellum, and 9mm Luger (these are all the same thing, just different names), .40 Smith & Wesson (.40 S&W), and .45 Automatic Colt Pistol (.45ACP).  Don't worry, you can use a .40 S&W in guns other than a Smith & Wesson and .45ACP in guns other than Colts, they just invented the cartridges and thus got to name them.  9mm is the smallest (.40in = 10mm, .45in = 11.4mm) and has the least amount of recoil and lets you have more rounds in a magazine.  .40 and .45 caliber are larger with more recoil, cost more, and give you fewer rounds in a magazine.  I recommend 9mm for most handguns, though some people will recommend .40 or .45 for increased "stopping power".  Hundreds of books and countless articles have been written on this debate, so I'll stop there for now.  Get what you feel most comfortable with.

There are lots of great brands and models for full sized and compact striker-fired pistols.  In rough order of ascending price: Smith & Wesson (S&W), Springfield Armory, Glock, Sig Sauer, CZ (a Czech company that is unpronounceable by most Yankees, just say "CZ"), Walther, Heckler and Koch (H&K) are all solid choices.  Budget between $400 and $800 dollars for a striker-fired handgun.  I would also be sure to grab additional magazines, between 3 and 5 total.

### Hammer-fired pistols
Hammer-fired pistol are also semi-automatic, but have an external "hammer" which changes the way the trigger pull works and feels.  There are double and single-action hammer-fired pistols, as well as polymer and metal-framed options.  Double-action triggers are more modern, and allow you to have a heavy (and therefore safer) first shot, but lighter and easier follow ups.  Single action pistols have lighter triggers on every shot, but need to be carried with a manual safety engaged when not ready to fire.  I recommend double-action triggers for simplicity and safety.  Polymer frames are lighter weight and usually have larger magazines, but have more recoil.  Metal frames are heavier and usually have smaller magazines, but have less recoil.  Hammer-fired pistols are normally more expensive than striker-fired designs.  Hammer-fired pistols are available in the same calibers as striker-fired pistols.

Again, there are a lot of great brands and models for full sized and compact hammer-fired pistols.  In rough order of ascending price: Springfield Armory, Beretta, CZ, Sig Sauer, and Heckler & Koch (H&K).  Be sure to grab additional magazines, for a total of 3 to 5.

### Double action revolvers
If you live in a non-permissive area that doesn't allow for more modern firearms *and* you don't have the space for a pump-action shotgun, then a full sized double action revolver is your best choice.  They are more expensive, heavier, harder to shoot, have lower capacities, and are much more difficult to reload than a semi-automatic pistol, rifle, or shotgun.  However, they are as close to "ban-proof" as a handgun can get.  For a home defense revolver, get a full sized revolver chambered in .357 Magnum.  You have the option of firing the less powerful .38 Special if you get a .357, but you can't do the reverse with a .38 Special revolver.  Do not get a small five shot "airweight" or "snub-nosed" revolver, despite looking small and dainty, they have enormous amounts of recoil and are very unpleasant to shoot.  Do not get a .44 Magnum or .44 Special, even when full sized they have tremendous recoil and more expensive ammunition.  They're more for shooting bears and other dangerous animals.  I would recommend a "K" or "N" frame Smith & Wesson (the clerk will be able to point out specific models) or a Ruger GP100.  I would avoid Rossi and Taurus revolvers, even though they are less expensive.  I would avoid Colt revolvers because they are too expensive.  If you get a revolver, get appropriately sized "speed loaders", which are clips of ammunition held together to make reloading much quicker and easier.  I'd get between 3 and 5 of them.

### Tips on buying
For your first firearm, I recommend you visit a locally owned firearms shop.  I would avoid big sporting goods stores like Cabella's or Dick's, as they won't have the selection you're looking for and the staff won't be as knowledgeable.  Look up reviews before you visit and have a good idea of your budget and at least a rough idea of what you want.  The staff behind the counter can vary wildly from store to store.  Some are very knowledgeable and helpful, some are jerks, and some have no idea what they're talking about.  Be confident, but don't be cocky (you're reading this article because you aren't an expert).  Listen, but don't blindly accept whatever they say.  Especially if you are younger or female, do not let the clerk talk down to you and do not let them bully you into buying something you don't want.  If they continuously try to push you towards something that is too expensive or not what you are looking for (the most typical example being a pink, .38 caliber, snub-nosed revolver for women), ask to work with someone else or just leave.  The firearms community is overwhelmingly older, whiter, and more male than most of the population, so you may have to push through some preconceptions the staff have of you.  Sometimes you can get a lower price than what is listed, especially if you are also buying accessories like magazines or ammunition (they have better margins on those), but remember that you can order accessories online, sometimes at significantly lower prices.  Finally, don't buy into fear mongering or scare tactics from the clerk.  Remember, their job is to get you to pay as much as you can as soon as you can.

### Next steps
After purchasing your firearm, you need to be able to store it and use it safely and you need to practice with it.  I'll discuss both of those topics separately in future blog posts, but just in case you read this before they are up, please review Jeff Cooper's ["Four Rules of Gun Safety"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jeff_Cooper#Firearms_safety) and be smart.